%\vspace{-0.1in}
\section{Challenges}
\label{sec:challenges}

\subsection{Working with existing routing protocols and hardware}
\label{sec:incremental}

Many current proposals~\cite{tcpbolt, karol2003prevention,
sancho2004,lash,wu2003fault} for deadlock avoidance are based on custom routing
protocols that go to great lengths to avoid CBD.  Unfortunately, this makes it
very difficult to deploy them in existing data center networks.

Routing in modern data centers is accomplished in a variety of ways, including
BGP~\cite{vl2, facebookrouting} or using SDN-like
protocols~\cite{singh2015jupiter}.  No matter what routing protocols are used,
data center operators tune them carefully satisfy numerous requirements such as
manageability and fault tolerance.  In addition, operators invest heavily in
tools and technologies to monitor and maintain their networks.

Thus, data center operators are reluctant to deploy a brand-new routing protocol
{\em just for} deadlock avoidance. This task appears especially onerous because
RoCEv2 itself can be deployed without any changes to routing protocols -- RoCEv2
packets are encapsulated in normal UDP packets and routed like any normal IP
packets.

It's almost superfluous to note that operators would be even more reluctant to
adopt a deadlock avoidance a protocol that requires deployment of new hardware. 

\subsection{Data Center Networks are Dynamic}\label{sec:reroute}

Building a deadlock avoidance scheme that does not make any changes to routing
protocols is easier said than done. The key problem is that the routing is
dynamic -- paths can change in response to link failures or other events.

Figure~\ref{fig:basic_clos} shows a simplified (and small) version
of network deployed in our data center, with commonly used up-down routing (also
called valley-free~\cite{qiu2007toward}) scheme.  In up-down routing, a packet first
goes UP from the source server to one of the common ancestor switches of the
source and destination servers, then it goes DOWN from the common ancestor to
the destination server.  In UP-DOWN routing, the following property holds: when
the packet is on its way UP, it should not go DOWN; when it is on its way DOWN,
it should not go UP. Thus, with up-down routing, there can be no CBD and hence
no deadlock.

However, packets can deviate from the UP-DOWN paths due to many reasons,
including link failures (leading to route flaps), which are quite common in data
center networks~\cite{netpilot,f10}. When the up-down property is violated,
packets ``bouncing'' between layers can cause
deadlocks~\cite{shpiner2016unlocking}. See
Figure~\ref{fig:clos_1_bounce}.

In our data centers, we see hundreds of violations of up-down routing per
day. Such routes can persist for minutes or even longer. Overall, we estimate
that $0.001\%$ of the traffic is routed over such paths. This may sound tiny,
but given that our network carries exabytes of traffic per day, the absolute
amount of traffic affected by such routing is in tens of terabytes. This makes
the threat of deadlocks, as discussed
in\cite{rdmaatscale,shpiner2016unlocking,hu2016deadlocks} quite real.

\subsection{Limited Number of Lossless Queues}
\label{subsec:pfcheadroom}

One idea to solve deadlock is to assign dynamic priority to packets. The
priority of a packet increases as the packet approaches its destination
~\cite{karol2003prevention}.  Such a design requires as many priorities as the
diameter of the network.  The problem with this idea is that the PFC standard
supports only 8 priority classes. Worse yet, commodity switches can
realistically support fewer than 8 lossless classes.  The problem is that  to
guarantee the lossless property, a switch needs to reserve certain amount of
{\it headroom} per port, per lossless queue.

The headroom is needed to absorb the packets that are in flight between the time
a receiver sends a PFC pause frame to its upstream sender to the time the sender
stops transmitting.  The headroom size depends on many factors, including length
of cables between the switches. See Appendix \ref{APPHEADROOM} for details.  A 32-port
40GbE Ethernet switch needs to reserve 2.76MB of headroom to support one
lossless queue on all ports. A commodity switch like this typically has with
12MB total buffer\footnote{The memory used to build switch buffers needs to be
extremely fast, and hence is extremely expensive. Adding more memory raises
switch costs, and can lead to bufferbloat-like problems~\cite{dctcp}.}, so 23\%
of the total switch buffer is needed to support just one lossless priority.

While this headroom is sufficient to avoid packet drops, in practice, we use a
slightly larger value to avoid buffer under-flow when the receiver un-pauses the
sender.  Furthermore, we need to reserve buffers for non-RDMA (i.e. lossy)
traffic, which is still the dominating traffic in data centers. With these
constrains, the current commodity switches can typically support just two or
three lossless classes~\cite{rdmaatscale}.

New switching ASICs may be able to support more lossless queues by adding more
memory, using smaller cell size (64-byte) and by reducing the pause frame
response time. But even these are not expected to support more than four or five
lossless queues. Hence the solutions that require a large number of lossless
queues are not practical.

We now describe how \sysname{} addresses these three challenges.
