\secspacelarge
\section{Potential Deadlock Mitigations}
\label{sec:mitigation}
\secspace

Since cyclic buffer dependency is just a necessary condition for deadlock, there
are mitigation mechanisms that avoid deadlock even if cyclic buffer dependency
is present.  The examples and analysis in Section~\ref{sec:analysis} inspire us
with some of the following potential deadlock mitigations.

\para{TTL-based mitigation for deadlock caused by loops.} In a routing loop,
deadlock formation becomes less likely with smaller TTL (see
Equation~\ref{eq:condition}).  Thus, the most straightforward mitigation is to
reduce packets' initial TTL values.  For example, in an $N$-hop routing loop, if
the initial TTL is not larger than $N$, no deadlock will form because the
deadlock threshold for $r$ is $B$, which can never be exceeded.

In practice, we may not be able to guarantee that initial TTL values are always
smaller than the size of the loop. However, by proper switch buffer management,
we may make {\em class-specific} TTL much smaller than the actual TTL values.
For example, if we assign packets that have different TTL values by at least $X$
to different priority classes, the effective TTL becomes $X$ within a priority
class. Since PFC PAUSE operates based on priority classes, the deadlock
threshold of injecting rate $r$ is effectively increased.

In worst-case scenarios, the effective TTL may still be larger than the size of
loop, meaning that some $r$ smaller than $B$ leads to deadlock. We may consider
rate limiting to keep $r$ below the threshold $NB/TTL$, as discussed below.

\para{Rate limiting.} Commodity switches support bandwidth shaping for each
priority class or even particular flows. This can mitigate deadlock caused by
both routing loops and multi-flow buffer dependency, as shown in
Section~\ref{sec:analysis}. If we are able to predict the rate threshold for
deadlock, we may bound the individual flow rate by that threshold on switches
that are involved in cyclic buffer dependency. However, this requires
intelligent rate limiting schemes to avoid over-punishing innocent flows. We
leave this to future work.

\para{Limiting PFC pause frames propagation:} PFC is well known for its HoL
blocking problem. The damage of HoL and the potential deadlock caused by PFC is
significant because the pause frames are generated near the destination or in
the middle of the network, where network congestion usually happen. Hence if we
can limit the PFC pause frame propagation -- or just generate them near the
source, we can reduce the damage of both deadlock and HoL blocking. 

Here we describe several possible ways of doing so: first, we can assign
different PFC thresholds to the ports of a switch based on their position in the
topology. Ports connecting to the downstream (i.e towards leaf) get smaller
threshold, whereas ports connecting to the upstream get larger threshold.
Second, we can use switches with larger threshold values at the higher tiers so
that they can absorb small bursts instead of generating PFC pause frames. Third,
again, we may classify packets with different TTL into different classes and
assign them different PFC thresholds.  Unfortunately, these solutions may lead
to other issues including the unfairness between long (across different high
tier switches) and short ({\em e.g.,} within the same rack) flows.  This
trade-off requires further study.

\para{Preventing PFC from been generated.} The recent transport protocols,
DCQCN~\cite{dcqcn} and TIMELY~\cite{timely} are designed to reduce the
possibility of PFC generation. But due to the feedback latency of end-to-end
delay, neither algorithm can detect congestion instantaneously, and thus they
cannot completely prevent PFC from been generated. 

One possible way to further reduce PFC is to integrate DCQCN together with
phantom queuing, like~\cite{Alizadeh12}. By reacting to the phantom queues that
assume lower link speed, congestion signals are generated much earlier. 

\para{Other possible mechanisms.} In future work, a deeper understanding of
tighter conditions for deadlock may lead to more deadlock mitigation mechanisms
-- this is the focus of our ongoing work.
